README.md, before:

# DynDNS Updater
![Docker Image Size (tag)](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/william1760/dyndns_updater/latest)
![Docker Image Version (tag latest semver)](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/william1760/dyndns_updater)

## Overview

The DynDNS Updater is a Python script that automates the process of updating your DynDNS hostname with your current public IP address. This ensures that your DynDNS hostname always points to the correct IP address, even if it changes over time.

## Features

- Automatic retrieval of current public IP address from configurable DNS resolvers.
- Update DynDNS hostname with the current IP address.
- Flexible scheduling options for periodic updates.
- Key management for secure authentication with DynDNS service.
- Enhance portability, isolation, and reproducibility by running in a Docker image.

## Prerequisites

Before running the script, make sure you have the following dependencies installed:

- Python 3.x
- Docker

## Configuration

Edit the `dockerfile` file with your desired dyndns domain and review the time-zone.

```bash
- ENV HOSTNAME="YOUR_DOMAIN.dyndns.org"
- ENV TZ="Hongkong"
```

## Setup

The DynDNS Updater operates within a Docker image, automatically checking for IP changes every 15 minutes by default. You can manually build the image using the provided `dockerfile`, or utilize `DockerCtrl.py` for streamlined setup.

Configuration settings are defined in the `DockerCtrl.config` file, including the `restart_policy` for the Docker container."

```bash
python DockerCtrl.py --build-image
```

## Usage

### First time running
Pre-storing login credentials in an encoded file named `Token.key` under the Docker for updating the latest Public IP on dyndns.org.

```bash
python DockerCtrl.py --setup
```

`DockerCtrl.py` can also manage the image.

### Command-line Arguments
- `--build-image`: Build the Docker image.
- `--remove-image`: Remove the Docker image and its associated container.
- `--start`: Start the Docker container.
- `--attach`: Attach to the Docker container.
- `--stop`: Stop the Docker container.
- `--interactive`: Start the Docker container in interactive mode.
- `--status`: Show the status of the Docker image and container.
- `--cmd` <command>: Provide a custom command to run inside the Docker container.
- `--setup`: Set up the Docker container with the specified configuration.

### Examples
```bash
#Start Docker Container
python DockerCtrl.py --start

#Start interactive mode to a running Docker Container 
python DockerCtrl.py --attach

#Run Docker Container as interactive mode
python DockerCtrl.py --start --attach

#Run Custom Command
python DockerCtrl.py --cmd "python main.py"

#Set Up Docker Container
python DockerCtrl.py --setup
```

## Running the Script Directly

Of course, you can also run the python script `wrk/main.py` directly without Docker. This provides flexibility for users who may not want to use Docker for some reason.

```bash
python main.py
```

### Command-line Arguments

- `--run-now`: Run the update process immediately.
- `--interval <minutes>`: Set the update interval in minutes (default: 5).
- `--force`: Force an update even if the IP address has not changed.
- `--status`: Print the current status without performing an update.
- `--setup`: Set up and manage authentication keys.

### Examples
```bash
# Run an immediate update
python main.py --run-now

# Set a custom update interval of 10 minutes
python main.py --interval 10

# Force an update even if the IP address hasn't changed
python main.py --run-now --force

# Print the current status
python main.py --status

# Set up and manage authentication keys 
python main.py --setup

# Set hostname
python main.py --hostname your_adhoc_domain.dyndns.org
```

Commit message:

Change the hostname logic again and save / retrieve from Token.key.

README.md, after:

# DynDNS Updater
![Docker Image Size (tag)](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/william1760/dyndns_updater/latest)
![Docker Image Version (tag latest semver)](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/william1760/dyndns_updater)

## Overview

The DynDNS Updater is a Python script that automates the process of updating your DynDNS hostname with your current public IP address. This ensures that your DynDNS hostname always points to the correct IP address, even if it changes over time.

## Features

- Automatic retrieval of current public IP address from configurable DNS resolvers.
- Update DynDNS hostname with the current IP address.
- Flexible scheduling options for periodic updates.
- Key management for secure authentication with DynDNS service.
- Enhance portability, isolation, and reproducibility by running in a Docker image.

## Prerequisites

Before running the script, make sure you have the following dependencies installed:

- Python 3.x
- Docker

## Configuration

Edit the `dockerfile` file with your desired dyndns domain and review the time-zone.

```bash
- ENV TZ="Hongkong"
```

## Setup

The DynDNS Updater operates within a Docker image, automatically checking for IP changes every 15 minutes by default. You can manually build the image using the provided `dockerfile`, or utilize `DockerCtrl.py` for streamlined setup.

Configuration settings are defined in the `DockerCtrl.config` file, including the `restart_policy` for the Docker container."

```bash
python DockerCtrl.py --build-image
```

## Usage

### First time running
Pre-storing login credentials and hostname in an encoded file named `Token.key` under the Docker for updating the latest Public IP on dyndns.org.

```bash
#Using `DockerCtrl.py` to setup for first time.
python DockerCtrl.py --setup

#Direct run python script `main.py`.
python DockerCtrl.py --setup
```

In fact, `DockerCtrl.py` can also manage the image.

### Command-line Arguments
- `--build-image`: Build the Docker image.
- `--remove-image`: Remove the Docker image and its associated container.
- `--start`: Start the Docker container.
- `--attach`: Attach to the Docker container.
- `--stop`: Stop the Docker container.
- `--interactive`: Start the Docker container in interactive mode.
- `--status`: Show the status of the Docker image and container.
- `--cmd` <command>: Provide a custom command to run inside the Docker container.
- `--setup`: Set up the Docker container with the specified configuration.

### Examples
```bash
#Start Docker Container
python DockerCtrl.py --start

#Start interactive mode to a running Docker Container 
python DockerCtrl.py --attach

#Run Docker Container as interactive mode
python DockerCtrl.py --start --attach

#Run Custom Command
python DockerCtrl.py --cmd "python main.py"

#Set Up Docker Container
python DockerCtrl.py --setup
```

## Running the Script Directly

Of course, you can also run the python script `wrk/main.py` directly without Docker. This provides flexibility for users who may not want to use Docker for some reason.

```bash
python main.py
```

### Command-line Arguments

- `--run-now`: Run the update process immediately.
- `--interval <minutes>`: Set the update interval in minutes (default: 5).
- `--force`: Force an update even if the IP address has not changed.
- `--status`: Print the current status without performing an update.
- `--setup`: Set up and manage authentication keys.

### Examples
```bash
# Run an immediate update
python main.py --run-now

# Set a custom update interval of 10 minutes
python main.py --interval 10

# Force an update even if the IP address hasn't changed
python main.py --run-now --force

# Print the current status
python main.py --status

# Set up and manage authentication keys 
python main.py --setup

# Set hostname
python main.py --hostname your_adhoc_domain.dyndns.org
```
